#summary mu-template: template-files expander
#labels Featured

== Introduction ==

µTemplate is a template-files loader for Vim. Once loaded, templates are interpreted and expanded according to a flexible syntax.

== Features ==
  * Template-files can be expanded:
    * automatically when opening a new buffer (unless deactivated from the .vimrc),
    * explicitly through menus or the command line,
    * from the INSERT-mode in a snippet-like fashion ;
  * All snippets are defined in their own template-file ;
  * The template-files can be overridden by the user, or in the context of a specific project ;
  * Filetype specific snippets can be defined for the INSERT-mode (they can be inherited, e.g. C snippets can be used from C++, Java, _etc._);
  * Computed VimL expressions can be inserted ;
  * VimL instructions can be executed during the expansion ;
  * Template-files can include other template-files in a function-like manner ;
  * Fully integrated with my [lhBrackets placeholders-system] ;
  * Supports re-indentation (if desired) ; 
  * Works well with vim folding ;
  * I18n friendly


== Examples == 

A few examples are better than a long speech, check the [http://code.google.com/p/lh-vim/source/browse/mu-template/trunk/doc/mu-template.txt documentation] for more precisions.

Note: all the default template-files shipped with mu-template can be browsed from the [http://code.google.com/p/lh-vim/source/browse/mu-template/trunk/after/template/ subversion repository]

=== C-`for` snippet ===
{{{
VimL: let s:value_start  = '¡'
VimL: let s:value_end    = '¡'
VimL: let s:reindent     = 1 
VimL: let s:marker_open  = '<+'
VimL: let s:marker_close = '+>'
for¡C_nl_before_bracket()¡(<+init+>;<+cond+>;<+iteration+>)¡C_nl_before_curlyB()¡{
    <+code+>
}<++>
}}}

=== Interactive template-file: C++ Class Template ===
{{{
VimL: let s:value_start = '¡'
VimL: let s:value_end   = '¡'
VimL: let s:reindent = 1
VimL: let s:marker_open  = '<+'
VimL: let s:marker_close = '+>'
VimL: let s:clsname = inputdialog("class name ?")
VimL: call CppDox_ClassWizard(s:clsname)
VimL:" CppDox_ClassWizard() asks what semantics the class will have 
VimL:" (value, entity, clonable, ...), and fills in all the g:CppDox_xxx variables
VimL:" used in this template-file.
VimL:"
/**
 * @brief <+brief+>
 *
 * <+doc+>
 *
 * <+@invariants+>
 *
 * <p><b>Semantics</b><br>
 ¡g:CppDox_semantics¡
 * <+ <li> sem+>
 *
 * @version ¡'$'¡revision$
 * ¡CppDox_author()¡
 */
class ¡s:clsname¡
¡g:CppDox_inherits¡
{
public:
    /**@name Construction/destruction
     */
    //@{
    ¡g:CppDox_constructors¡

    /**
     * ¡g:CppDox_isVirtualDest¡ Destructor.
     *
     ¡IF(strlen(g:CppDox_isVirtualDest), '', '* @warning this class is not meant to be publicly inherited')¡
     * @throw Nothing
     */
    ¡g:CppDox_isVirtualDest¡ ~¡s:clsname¡() ;
    //@}

    <+Other public functions+>;

    ¡IF(strlen(g:CppDox_protected_members), "protected:\n", '')¡
    ¡g:CppDox_protected_members¡

private:
    ¡g:CppDox_forbidden_members¡

    <+Private functions+>;

    <+Attributes+>;
};<++>
}}}

=== Completely useless example ===
 * test.template
{{{
VimL: let s:value_start  = '¡'
VimL: let s:value_end    = '¡'
VimL: let s:marker_open  = '<+'
VimL: let s:marker_close = '+>'
VimL: let s:var = 1
BEGIN<++>
/*
 * ¡'$'¡Id$
 */
¡s:var¡
a¡s:var¡
¡s:var + 5¡a
a¡s:var¡a¡s:var¡
a¡s:var¡a¡s:var¡a
here <+we go+>
VimL: let s:msg =''
VimL: call s:Include('test-included')
VimL: let s:msg =' again'
VimL: call s:Include('test-included')

------
Some tests:
VimL: let s:expr = "first line\nsecond line\n "
text ¡s:expr¡
text
END
}}}
 * test-included.template
{{{
VimL: let s:times = exists('s:times') ? (s:times+1) : 1
This part has been included¡s:msg¡ ¡((s:times==1)?'once':(s:times==2 ? 'twice' : (s:times.' times')))¡.
VimL: if s:times <= 4 | call s:Include('test-included') | endif 
VimL: silent! unlet s:times
}}}


== Shipped templates ==
µTemplate is shipped by default with the following templates:

=== Vim ===

  * On creation of a new `.vim` file, the file is filled according to the kind of vim-script detected (from the directory where the new file is stored):
    * _autoload-plugins_ will contain a few debug oriented functions ;
    * _(plain) plugins_ will contain a global anti-reinclusion guard and its override variable (for maintenance purpose), an internal `s:k_version` number, and a few indications about what plugins should contain ;
    * _ft-plugins_ will contain a global and a local anti-reinclusion guard and their override variable (for maintenance purpose), an internal `s:k_version` number, and a few indications about what ft-plugins should contain ;
    * _local-vimrcs_ will look a lot like ft-plugin ;
    * otherwise, the file won't contain anything specific ;
    * *in all cases*:
      * a default header is filled with RCS tags ($Id$, $Date$), and other fields for the filename (kept relative to `{rtp}` when possible), the author/maintainer, the version, a short description, history, todo, _etc._ ;
      * `cpo&vim` is set for the duration of the script ;
      * a footer forces `foldmethod` to `marker`.
  All the choices made are the result of what I've come to consider over the years to be good practices regarding vim files contents.

  * The snippets _foreach_, _fori_, and _loop-arg_ expand respectively to the `:for` vim-loop, or a `:while` vim-loop that increments _i_, or another index variable.

  * The snippet _plugmap_ expands into an overridable _plug-mapping_.

  * The snippet _autoload-debug_ expands into the debug-oriented functions added by default to autoload-plugins -- its purpose is to add simply those functions to autoload-plugins that don't have them yet.

  * The snippet _function_ expands into a `:function!` definition. If the current script is an autoload-plugin, the function name matches the autoload-plugin name -- to insert other kinds of functions, just use the `fu` abbreviation from `vim_snippets.vim`. Otherwise, the function name will just start with a `s:`.


NB: there are no µTemplate snippets for `:if`, `:try`, _etc._ because they are maintained independently thanks to [lhBracket my bracketing system] in `vim_snippets.vim` (todo: add link).

=== C & C++ ===

=== LaTeX ===

=== Perl === 

=== XSLT ===

=== Other ===


== Download ==
  * Requirements: Vim 7.+, [lhVimLib lh-vim-lib], [searchInRuntime], and my [lhBrackets bracketing-system]
  * As a vimball: [http://lh-vim.googlecode.com/files/mu-template-2.0.3.vba here]
  * Checkout from the SVN repository
    {{{  
# Non-members may check out a read-only working copy anonymously over HTTP.
svn checkout http://lh-vim.googlecode.com/svn/mu-template/trunk/ mu-template-read-only
    }}}

== Credits ==
  * Gergely Kontra is the author of the first version of µTemplate
  * Luc Hermitte (LH) is the current maintainer of this enhanced version of mu-template
  * Robert Kelly IV, Zdenek Sekera for their insight and the feedback they provided me (LH).

== See also ==
There are many other template-files loaders for Vim, see the [http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Category:Automated_Text_Insertion non exhaustive list of vim.wikia]