#summary UT: Unit Testing Framework for Vim
#labels Featured,beta,UT

= Introduction =

_UT_ is another Test Unit Framework for Vim, which main particularity is to fill the |quickfix| window with the assertion failures.

= Features =
  * Assertion failures are reported in the quickfix window
  * Assertion syntax is simple, check Tom Link's suite, it's the same
  * Supports banged `:Assert!` to stop processing a given test on failed assertions
  * One file == a suite
  * All the `s:Test*` functions of a suite are executed (almost) independently (i.e., a critical `:Assert!` failure will stop the Test of the function, and `lh#UT` will proceed to the next `s:Test` function
  * Lightweight and simple to use: there is only one command defined, all the other definitions are kept in an autoload plugin.
  * A suite == a file
  * Several `s:TestXxx()` per suite
  * +optional `s:Setup()`, `s:Teardown()`
  * Supports `:Comments`
  * `s:LocalFunctions()`, `s:variables`, and `l:variables` are supported
  * Takes advantage of [BTW BuildToolsWrapper]'s `:COpen` command if installed

=== Examples ===
See:
  * [http://code.google.com/p/lh-vim/source/browse/UT/trunk/tests/lh/UT.vim tests/lh/UT.vim] for a classical test,
  * [http://code.google.com/p/lh-vim/source/browse/UT/trunk/tests/lh/UT-fixture.vim tests/lh/UT.vim] for a test with fixtures.


=== To Do ===
  * Simplify `:Assert` substitution: the file name is known when `:UTRun` is executed. There is no need to add it during the pre-processing phase.
  * Add `&efm` for VimL errors like the one produced by `:Assert 0 + [0]`
  * Test under windows
  * Command to exclude, or specify the tests to play => `:UTPlay`, `:UTIgnore`
  * Simplify `s:errors` functions
  * Merge with Tom Link's tAssert plugin? (the UI is quite different)
  * `:AssertEquals` that shows the name of both expressions and their values as well -- a correct distinction of both parameters will be tricky with regexes ; using functions will loose either the name, or the value in case of local/script variables use ; we need macros _à la C_...
  * Support Embedded comments like for instance: 
{{{
Assert 1 == 1 " 1 must value 1
}}}
  * Ways to test buffers produced
  * Count successful tests and not successful assertions
  * Short-cuts to run the Unit Tests associated to a given vim script
  * Always execute s:Teardown() -- move its call to a :finally bloc


= Design Choices = 
  * The assertions supported by this plugin are expected to be made in a Unit Testing file, they are not to be used in regular VimL scripts. Check Thomas Link's plugin, it is much more suited for that kind of assertions.

  * In order to be able to produce the quickfix entries, the plugin first parses the Unit Test file to complete all `:Assert` occurrences with extra information about the origin file and the line number where the assertion is made.


= Download =
  * Requirements: Vim 7.1
  * As a vimball: [http://lh-vim.googlecode.com/files/UT-0.0.1.vba here], or at [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=??? Vim.org]
  * Checkout from the SVN repository
    {{{  
# Non-members may check out a read-only working copy anonymously over HTTP.
svn checkout http://lh-vim.googlecode.com/svn/UT/trunk/ UT-read-only
    }}}

= Other Unit Testing Framework for Vim =
  * Tom Link's tAssert plugin.
  * ...